01-user-secrets.md, before:

# User Secrets

We have probably stored sensitive API keys, Secrets, and connection strings into that appsettings.json file and checked it
into a repository. Even if we untracked that .json file from our repo, all that sensitive information still made it to
earlier commits. From now on, we shall NEVER store anything sensitive in appsettings.json. Sensitive stuff include, but are
not limited to:

* database connection strings
* API Keys and Secrets
* local hard drive folders
* Encryption/Decryption keys

So what's left, then, that we could save in appsettings.json?

* Form Labels and prompt text
* Short messages that will appear on more than one page

Note: The following is for a machine that has the Asp.NET Core 2.1 SDK installed. We are not sure if we have access to
certain files saved outside our projects from inside VS.

## Creation of the Secret Configuration POCO

We will first create a secret configuration POCO:

```csharp

public class SecretConfiguration
{
  public string ApiKey { get; set; }
  public string ApiSecret { get; set; }
  public string ConnectionString { get; set; }
}
```

This class will make it convenient for us to access the values later.

## Setting up the App to Read Secret Configuration

When the web app was first created off a VS template, it was automatically given a unique secrets GUID. We could observe this
if we right-clicked the project and chose to edit the project's .csproj file. It is under the `PropertyGroup` node:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp2.0</TargetFramework>
    <UserSecretsId>02f6b775-17b2-4e75-fca9-b07f1ca1e2e3</UserSecretsId>
  </PropertyGroup>
  ...
</Project>
```

Yes, this GUID will be checked into the repo. Yes, this will be the app's unique secrets id on any machine it would be cloned
to.

### secrets.json
Our application will have a secrets.json file associated with it. No, we did not create this - VS and the operating system did upon
creating our project. No, this file is NOT saved with the project so that it does not get checked into a repo ever. It is a file in a
special location on the developer's machine that both VS and the OS knows about. That user secret key value is actually the name of
a folder somewhere on the hard drive, which would ensure us that we are properly editing the correct secrets.json file. The name of
this file is mandatory and we should not change it!

If we right-click on our project, and chose "Manage User Secrets", an editor window for secrets.json will show. We can fill this file
with JSON specific to our application:

```json
{
  "SecretConfig": {
    "ApiKey": "LMNOP",
    "ApiSecret": "12345ABC",
    "ConnectionString": "The secret connection string"
  }
}
```

Notice that the .json file is an object with one property that holds our secret configuration data. This is not absolutely required,
but we will need to do it for our purposes. In case we are using a strongly-typed configuration object from appsettings.json, we need
to do this to specifically pick out the secret configuration object. Be aware that the JSON in both secrets.json and appsettings.json
are merged into one object, and we access values via `Configuration["somePropertyName"]` where `somePropertyName` may be in either
.json file.

So now, how do we access the contents of secrets.json? We need to access it from Startup.cs, and then register it as a singleton so that
we can grab it via constructor injection from many places in our app:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
  ...
  /* Instantiate blank secret configuration object
  */
  var secretConfig = new SecretConfiguration();

  /* Fill the secret configuration object. Configuration will find that object by the provided key from either appsettings.json
     or secrets.json, and once it finds the property, it will save the JSON data to our object
  */
  Configuration.Bind("SecretConfig", secretConfig);

  /* Add the secret configuration object to the DI container so we can access it later from anywhere via constructor injection
  */
  services.AddSingleton(secretConfig);
  ...
}
```

## Concerns about Production Deployment

Microsoft intends for us to use user secrets ONLY for development. Now, our project will have scattered around it DI-injected
secret configuration object references. When our app is finally deployed to production, we cannot guarantee that we'll have
a secrets.json file associated with our deployed package. Chances are, the app on the production machine would not be running
under VS anyway, so we would not have an opportunity to edit such a secret file. Our app on that server wouldn't be running under VS anyway, so we can't

So far, the only "cure" for this is to actually put the secret json in the deployed appsettings.production.json. That's
tedious. We are currently researching how to resolve the deployment issue.

Commit message:

User Secrets in Production documented

01-user-secrets.md, after:

# User Secrets

We have probably stored sensitive API keys, Secrets, and connection strings into that appsettings.json file and checked it
into a repository. Even if we untracked that .json file from our repo, all that sensitive information still made it to
earlier commits. From now on, we shall NEVER store anything sensitive in appsettings.json. Sensitive stuff include, but are
not limited to:

* database connection strings
* API Keys and Secrets
* local hard drive folders
* Encryption/Decryption keys

So what's left, then, that we could save in appsettings.json?

* Form Labels and prompt text
* Short messages that will appear on more than one page

Note: The following is for a machine that has the Asp.NET Core 2.1 SDK installed. We are not sure if we have access to
certain files saved outside our projects from inside VS.

## Creation of the Secret Configuration POCO

We will first create a secret configuration POCO:

```csharp

public class SecretConfiguration
{
  public string ApiKey { get; set; }
  public string ApiSecret { get; set; }
  public string ConnectionString { get; set; }
}
```

This class will make it convenient for us to access the values later.

## Setting up the App to Read Secret Configuration

When the web app was first created off a VS template, it was automatically given a unique secrets GUID. We could observe this
if we right-clicked the project and chose to edit the project's .csproj file. It is under the `PropertyGroup` node:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp2.0</TargetFramework>
    <UserSecretsId>02f6b775-17b2-4e75-fca9-b07f1ca1e2e3</UserSecretsId>
  </PropertyGroup>
  ...
</Project>
```

Yes, this GUID will be checked into the repo. Yes, this will be the app's unique secrets id on any machine it would be cloned
to.

### secrets.json
Our application will have a secrets.json file associated with it. No, we did not create this - VS and the operating system did upon
creating our project. No, this file is NOT saved with the project so that it does not get checked into a repo ever. It is a file in a
special location on the developer's machine that both VS and the OS knows about. That user secret key value is actually the name of
a folder somewhere on the hard drive, which would ensure us that we are properly editing the correct secrets.json file. The name of
this file is mandatory and we should not change it!

If we right-click on our project, and chose "Manage User Secrets", an editor window for secrets.json will show. We can fill this file
with JSON specific to our application:

```json
{
  "SecretConfig": {
    "ApiKey": "LMNOP",
    "ApiSecret": "12345ABC",
    "ConnectionString": "The secret connection string"
  }
}
```

Notice that the .json file is an object with one property that holds our secret configuration data. This is not absolutely required,
but we will need to do it for our purposes. In case we are using a strongly-typed configuration object from appsettings.json, we need
to do this to specifically pick out the secret configuration object. Be aware that the JSON in both secrets.json and appsettings.json
are merged into one object, and we access values via `Configuration["somePropertyName"]` where `somePropertyName` may be in either
.json file.

So now, how do we access the contents of secrets.json? We need to access it from Startup.cs, and then register it as a singleton so that
we can grab it via constructor injection from many places in our app:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
  ...
  /* Instantiate blank secret configuration object
  */
  var secretConfig = new SecretConfiguration();

  /* Fill the secret configuration object. Configuration will find that object by the provided key from either appsettings.json
     or secrets.json, and once it finds the property, it will save the JSON data to our object
  */
  Configuration.Bind("SecretConfig", secretConfig);

  /* Add the secret configuration object to the DI container so we can access it later from anywhere via constructor injection
  */
  services.AddSingleton(secretConfig);
  ...
}
```

## User Secrets in Production Deployment

Microsoft intends for us to use user secrets ONLY for development. Now, our project will have scattered around it DI-injected
secret configuration object references. When our app is finally deployed to production, the app will not look for a secrets.json
file. We will need to simulate the contents of the development secrets.json file via system environment variables.

When the app is running in production, Asp.NET Core not only looks in appsettings[.environemntName].json files, but also in
the system environment variables. There is a way in system environment variables to replicate JSON object hierarchy. If we look
at our secrets.json file, we have a top-level "SecretConfig" object, and it has the properties "ApiKey", "ApiSecret", and "ConnectionString".
Those properties and their values translate to "SecretConfig__ApiKey", "SecretConfig__ApiSecret", and "SecretConfig__ConnectionString".
The double underscore is the "syntax" that Asp.NET Core will interpret as the dot in code to access property values. So, we can go ahead and
add those variables to whatever system we're going to deploy the app. We may need to consult OS-specific ways to set environment
variables.

For Windows, though, we will need to run in the Command Prompt `iisreset /noforce` so that IIS will immediately recognize any changes
we made when setting system environment variables. As a caution, resetting IIS may impact other websites already running in the system,
so system-wide planning will be necessary.

Warning: If you set environment variables to test a production deployment ON YOUR DEVELOPMENT MACHINE, those environment variables will
win (or be the ones that will actually apply), EVEN IN DEVELOPMENT MODE. Yes, you may set secret information in the regular appsettings
files, or even in secrets.json, but values there will ultimately not make it in development. Asp.NET Core forces the environment variables
to take effect if found, and will override anything set in any .json settings files!
