# Today's Reflection

Today, I want to focus on one thing - how do I learn all of the things I need to develop all of these apps?

Firstly, I formally studied Computer Science, so I learned the rudiments of computer programming. C++ and Java were the languages I used to complete assignments
and projects, for the most part, but I was able to apply their principles to other languages like C# and ActionScript. I also studied other topics like
computational complexity, operating systems, computer graphics, Internet technologies, networks, and programming language paradigms besides imperative and OOP.
So, although what I learned are actually introductions and brief surveys, I feel like I have a solid enough foundation that would guide me in further research,
learning, and applying concepts and principles to every app I've worked on.

But there is so much to learn! During my first few years, I wanted to conquer every server-side platform I would find out about. I learned PHP first, then JSP.
Finally, I found Asp.NET (2.0) and settled with Microsoft ever since. When client-side development came back with a vengeance, I wanted to conquer all of those
MVV* Frameworks. I started with Knockout and finally decided to settle with Angular. Anyway, I wanted to conquer everything, including even all persistent data 
storage systems. I heavily subscribed to the idea that learning all frameworks, even all stacks, would secure me in the highly-competitive field of software
development. It only ended up in burnout. I soon realized that I wasn't getting much done by chasing every new platform and framework as soon as I hear about 
it. I decided that I would be OK to stick with one stack and be proficient in all of its components, and I would use that stack to develop all of my apps.

Even with my chosen platform, Microsoft, I don't know how to do everything it offers. For instance, I am not very well-versed in server-side MVC, since my
projects were better-suited for Web API consumed by an SPA. I am also not too familiar with Windows desktop development, like WinForms and WPF, though I have
created apps with those a long time ago. With SPAs being so hot nowadays, I sort of abandoned native app development. I've tried, but I didn't have the '
man-power to deliver an app consumed by so many platforms. 

So, to solidify my knowledge with familiar frameworks, languages, and platforms, I want to make sure I can explain them to anyone who wants to learn them. I
like to write, so when I find the time, I write guides and tutorials. Doing this helps me better retain the information. Also, by trying to explain something,
I sometimes discover that I actually don't know it well enough, so I go back and work on those.

With newer material, I first try out what tutorials and official documentations publish. When I get things to work, then I write about it in a way that I myself
am explaining it to someone who wants to learn it for the first time.

What about deciding not to pursue a hot technology I come across? My company prefers Microsoft, so I'll stay with that. Independently, I'll create my own apps
using Microsoft technologies because I'm familiar with them, and I'll deliver quicker, since I'm also pressed for time with other matters of life. It does
sound like I'm dismissing techs, well, practically yes. However, it doesn't mean that I made a firm decision, say, not to ever pursue Apple technologies or
other platforms like Ruby on Rails or NodeJS. I'll get to those when I have time, and/or when my apps call for them. So far, it's mostly Microsoft.

I'll admit, though, that by "executive decision", I decided to ditch React. I've tried it. I, just for the life of me cannot wrap my head around its core 
principles and required messy interspersing of JavaScript and HTML (JSX), since it feels like it's raping my CS education and every other platform and 
technology I've ever worked with. I'll admit that I find React so excruciatingly difficult, including its development environment setup, but that doesn't mean 
that I'm a completely incompetent developer like many might regard me as for my aversion to React!


