# Reflection

It has been a while since I made an entry in this main journals section. I want to remind myself that this section is for my general thoughts, directions
I may want to take, and other musings about development. This is not so much a technical section where I delve deep into how to do specific things.

## Some Advanced Advanced Angular

I have spent a majority of the last few months brushing up on some Angular. I finally explored topics that I avoided like plagues in the past like creating
directives (other than the component), dynamic components, and templating beyond writing the markup code for components.

With directives and dynamic components, I was able to pull that long-sought modal dialog the right way. The wrong way was plopping modal-intended markup on a
host component and manage its show/hide state with a boolean property on that host component. This turned out to be very tedious to implement over and over, 
and became a nightmare when a single host component needed more than one type of modal dialog to pop up. The right way was to be able to popup the modal 
*in code*, subscribe to the modal's close event, and obtain any data that may have resulted from interacting with the modal, and not to make the host 
component manage its open and close state.

One of my biggest pet peeves was being stuck with the HTML and CSS of components I intend to reuse across many applications. I would be stuck with the
colors, for example, decided by the module that a component might be in. What I've always done in the past was to literally copy a component from app to
app, only changing the CSS so that it applied each app's brand colors. I felt like the ability to skin components, as I've done in legacy Asp.NET and Flex
was a dire need in Angular, but Angular components didn't turn out to be skinnable. The answer to that was advanced templating where I gave the implementor
the ability to decide html markup for parts of the component, and even a layout template to be able to fully control where each renderable part of the
component could be placed. This involved exposing some component-internal data and functions to the implementor so that the proper data and any component
state would be displayed and be reflected accordingly. Then, all it takes to "skin" the component was to let the hosting component decide the CSS, and lo
and behold - the component would actually apply app-specific CSS. So, in summary, I'm now able to create components and allow the app to decide its entire
HTML and CSS, while maintaining the component's functionality.

Another project I worked on was an easy-to-use responsive framework. It is fairly basic in the way that it only listens for the ever-changing width of the
viewport, and lets any subscribers know whether the current width is currently small, medium, or large, and when any of those sizes changes to another. So,
yes, a component or another service can inject the Responsive service and listen for changes between small, medium, or large, and depending on the current 
size, may decide whether to show/hide content, or even whether to make particular API calls or not. But perhaps my favorite feature I've implemented are my 
media-query-like behavioral directives that I could apply to any element or component I would plop on any component's markup. With a directive, I am able to 
apply custom CSS classes to an element or component when, for example, the width is greater than small, or just large. Also, with a directive, I am able to 
show and hide elements and components when, for example, the width is less than large, or just small.

With my newfound knowledge of dynamic components, advanced templating, and my easy responsive framework, I am now free from having to use a layout framework
like Bootstrap or Material where I would be stuck with their respective looks and I can only "skin" so much at the app's top level only. The result is I
can now create awesome desktop-like applications on Angular with enhanced ease, finer control of looks, and have the ability to fix the libraries should I
encounter any bugs.

## Markdown, Lexing, and Parsing

Another niggling thing that I often wondered about was how to convert Markdown text to html. Upto this point, even at the time I'm writing this, I've always
relied on third-party Markdown editors and renderers. Perhaps I could write my own and even add whatever I wanted to Markdown, like highlight certain text
or even make certain text blink (though I only want to know how to be able to do this, so I won't actually implement it). When it came to writing code in
Markdown, I also want to be able to render code with *syntax highlighting* and probably even with line numbers on them.

Upon researching how to pull my own Markdown editor and syntax highlighter, I discovered that I needed to perform some nitty-gritty string work on the
Markdown text, which involves some knowledge and experience of creating an actual compilable and runnable programming language. I was a bit overwhelmed and
devastated because I've *always* hated nit-picky string processing. This brought me back to college when a course on creating a custom compiler, thus
programming language, was offered, which I avoided like a plague. Maybe with my years of experience, tackling it wouldn't be as tough as I thought.

Just to get a taste of creating a programming language, I played around with trying to parse JSON so that I could output a beautified string of one. I was
able to create a JSON lexer where I was able to tokenize stuff, and later was able to translate the list of tokens to an abstract syntax tree. It worked
well, and I was able to output a beautified JSON string off the abstract syntax tree. However, when it came to Markdown, I had a bit of trouble since in
Markdown, a single character encountered at the lexer stage was not enough to determine what kind of token would be created. I tried for a while and failed.
It was taking way too long that I felt I was losing my time to getting a Markdown lexer right when I could've used that time to work towards an actual
project using tools and knowledge I knew. So, I halted the Markdown effort for now.

At least from this development "diversion", I gained a little bit of knowledge on how programming languages work, found out about the lexing phase and
discovered that it wasn't as punishing as I initially thought, and got a better grasp with the still-confusing concept of recursion with the parsing phase.
I also got to review and gained a better understanding of Finite State Machines, a concept from one of my upper-level Computer Science courses that I swore
I would never use in the industry, but was able to use it to achieve string recognition that I thought was so tough to pull with mind-boggling regular
expressions!

So, even if I didn't actually succeed with creating my own Markdown with syntax highlight, I still gained some knowledge and became a little bit more
comfortable with recursion and string processing.
